# Simlified comutation of power generated by a solar panel at a given location, orientation and time

## Approximations made

* Earth is a perfect sphere (No mountains, buildings, or vegetation).
* Earh has no atmosphere. (Therefore also no clouds.)
* Sunlight is is not reflected anywhere. (No indirect light.)
* Tropical circles are fixed at ±23.45° latitude.
* Declination of the sun is approximated by a sinusoidal function.
* Times of equinoxes and solstices are tabulated, phase of declination is
 interpolated between them. No extrapolation is performed.
* Aberation is not taken into account.

## Usage

In a ruby program:
```ruby
require_relative 'solar_radiation_fraction'
fraction = solar_radiation_fraction(location, time, tilt, bearing)
```
See the documenting comment of the `solar_radiation_fraction` method. The returned fraction needs to be multiplied with the peak power of the solar module to compute the current power generated at sunniest possible conditions.

## Tests

Run `ruby test_solar_radiation_fraction.rb` to run the tests.

## License

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to <http://unlicense.org/>